---
title: "#3 Striving and Being – A Paradox at the Core of our Humanity"
uid: 202210081206
aliases: ["Logbook #"]
post_nr: 000
post_status: future
post_date: 2022-10-28 10:00:00
taxonomy:
    category:
        - Logbook
---

I had an experience in November of last year that to this day is hard to place. It certainly informs allot of my decisions, it still has an impact, even if that impact is sometimes hard to understand.

The premise is simple. I had been trying to figure out a way to live. A small but significant set of principles I could use to not only guide my decisions, but understand my failures. I had learned allot, from my family as well as from society, but the was I understood my own humanity constantly lead to frustration. One of the big myths I managed to dismantel, was that [perfection](../Postdrafts/perfection-is-an-illusion.md) does not exist, even though its illusory existence is being shoved down our throat on a daily basis. The expectations I had were inhuman by definition, constantly leading to disappointment and pain. Framing these thought patterns in the larger  fable of hyper capitalism that has become our life lead me to understand that the system was not built for humans, and yet, it had brough me so much prosperity and comfort.

At the time I was visiting my family, sitting in my old childhood room, staring out the window into the garden. the wind made the trees dance as it usually does. These big living monuments thats burst forth from the earth, they had no quarell with any of this. They merely exist as a witness to it all. I felt something that I only knew to describe as a pain so great that it must have been the [pain of the world](world-pain.md). In retrospect, it is accesible to every single human being if you rust contemplate long enough on the collective suffering requiered for us to live the life we do. Evrything, from the very cotton silk pullover that kept me warm that autumn afternoon, contains within it the blood and sweat of countless others. The idea that our wealth is build on the pain of others is nothing new, arguably it has been the main mode of operation for the human species as a whole. Now a days it is hidden in plain sight. YOu could go a lifetime without ever even thinking about it. Ruminate on this fact for too long and you will feel the accumulated pain of the steam-workers of capitalism. When something is too good to be true, it probably is, they say. In hyper capitalism, for the likes of the standard westerner, everything is too good to be true. 

The experience left me in shambles, not because of the pain itself, but because of my reluctance to change. Not because I did not want to, but because I couldn't. No matter where my mind raced to, everything seemed contaminated with pain and guilt. Looking at the grander narrative of our species, I realized that this was never going to change. Our capability for wrong is just as great as our capability for right. I had to come to terms with the fallibility of the human spirit, not just from humanity as whole, but my personal ability to fail. The only thing that is possible is the attempt to do something. The power of humanity lies in the attempt, not exclusively in the outcome. What has to follow the attempt, is an acceptance of the outcome. If it is failure, try again. If it is success, try again. This created a big shift in my decision making. If I was going to be ready to accept the outcome, even if the worst nightmares of my failures materialized, and retain the required humility even when things do succeed, there would be no roadblocks to my humanity, I could be who I was.

A big theme in my notes and in my life has been the common understanding that perfection on the human level is perhaps the most dangerous belief we can have. It puts us in a position where we can actually give something back. Living by this simple engine has made a significant difference in how I approach my life and how I look at the wrong and right of the world, as well as my place in it. But as the months went by, something interesting emerged, a paradox that manifests as we live our lives trying and trying again to be better.

Acceptance is about being at peace with current circumstances, despite their sometimes unsettling nature. But then what force would lead me out of that stage to try again? Why should I try to make things better if I'm content living within the present of my experience? There seems to be dynamic between [striving and being](striving-and-being.md) which serves as the motor to drive any human action in the first place. We need to be able to imagine a better world to attempt to build it in the first place. And that vision drives us to action. The crucial point is, by my old system of operation, its manifestation was not sufficient, it was not perfect, it was not just how I imagined it. That lead to inaction. Accepting the outcome should not lead me to try with less rigor. Perfection is to be forever approximated, never achieved. And the displeasure from a perfection not achieved should never lead you into the false belief that you have performed under your human capabilities. In fact, if you have tried to approximate perfection, you have done all you could have done as a human being. Acceptance should never lead to inaction, to complacency with your life or the world. Rather, it should remove the key negative frame around your humanity that has potentially led you to inaction. Even so, the paradox remains. How can I be and strive at the same time? I don't yet have an answer. The frame of the paradox is to never deal in absolutes. Even perfection, if understood as a vision to approximate, rather than as the only valuable outcome, can be a useful driver to action. We seem to need some of that. I tend to the dynamic between being and striving like I tend to a garden. I give both sides just enough space to lead me to greater action without the crippling fear of failiure.

### Added Notes (3)
[Pain of the World](world-pain.md)
[Try, Forgive, Accept, Try Again](try-forgive-accept-try.md)
[21120201 Striving and Being](striving-and-being.md)

### Last Week's Logbook Entry
[#2 The Connection Between Conciousness and Deep Trust](../Postdrafts/the-connection-between-deep-trust-and-paying-attention.md)