---
title: Induced Temporary Numbness
sources: 
aliases: [Induced Temporary Numbness]
tags: 
- addiction 
- pain
---

Voluntarily inducing a state of numbness, to remain arrested for a period of time with the goal to not think and feel. There are 2 aspects to this undertaking.

1. The mind never stops, the chatter, the worrying. It needs to be kept occupied, entertained almost, with minimal effort. This is best accomplished with an infinite string of video content, be it YouTube or Netflix. Your mind will be occupied, the chatter will stop. Certain sedatives can also be helpful here, such a CBD or very light doses of alcohol. Video games do also work, but not always, as they might just be too active.
2. Big serotonin and dopamine hits, caused by excessive consumption of triggering food and pornography, will leave you feeling empty. There will be a perceived nothingness that takes hold over your experience.

You will remain in this state for a few hours, up to several days, but you will not loose yourself in it, you will always find back. There is such an attractive beauty in this mode of arrested being. It is a form of short term suicide, you brutally bring your mind and body to a standstill, erasing all feelings and sensations.

But do not be mistaken, re-birth is anything but pleasant or refreshing. You have to brute force yourself out of this state, the way out is the same way you came in. This is a luxury, the luxury to not feel, of temporary numbness, I simply cannot do without it. I am running from something, there is no denying that, but is that really so bad if I always run back?