---
title: Private and Public Life
source:
aliases: [Private and Public Life]
tags: 
taxonomy:
    category:
        - Concepts
    post_tag:
        -
---

### Private Sphere
Keeping a life entirely to yourself entails deprivation from a process that is essential to human life. We need regular exchange with others to verify and solidify our ideas of the world around us, this is a key function of the Public Sphere.

A lack of this objectivity among humans can lead to that sensation of loneliness so common to the modern world – that sense of disconnect from reality. We are imprisoned in the singularity of our own experience (Arendt).

Private life as a desirable state of being is a modern invention. The advances in technology and society that lead to richer private lives come at the expense of the assurance of reality.

At the same time, we need the private life to shelter the intimate. There is a darker ground, a darkness that looses meaning when exposed to too much light.

### Public Sphere
Public life in modernity has one core function: in conversations with others we can affirm our notions of reality.

Viewing an object from a multitude of different angles and perspectives without loosing its identity is how we grasp and understand the world, only then is something *real* – when it can be understood as such by a variety of people (*what I see is what you see*).

Yet a life spend entirely in public is shallow, or superficial, we need the private sphere to form new ideas, that are then validated through conversations with others in public, as well as shelter the intimate

**Sources**
Arendt, H., Allen, D. S., & Canovan, M. (2018). _The human condition_. The University of Chicago Press.