---
title: Western Ego
source:
aliases: [Western Ego, Ego]
tags: 
- ego
- examined-life 
taxonomy:
    category:
        - Concepts
    post_tag:
        -
---

Allan Watts once said that the Western Ego, the very concept our entire system is built to maintain, feed and protect, does not exist. Its the single most serious and dangerous collective illusion – the lack of awareness of the unity of organism and environment.

This can be interpreted in a number of ways. The ego encompasses the narrating part of our consciousness that reflects on thoughts and emotions with the aim to legitimize them to oneself and the world. 

This is an absolutely necessary function to survive in the modern world. That sense of self is crucial in establishing out identity as separate from the entities around us, be it people or things.

If we see this barrier between the self and the world as an illusion, a construct to facilitate human society and evolution, its illusory nature becomes clear. All feelings we deem as negative arise from an ego drive that can never be satisfied.

The perspective that we are all made from the same basic fabric helps mitigate this. There is a oneness that can be experienced, with the universe and its entities. Self consciousness, this sensation of the organism obstructing itself (Watts), can be very unpleasant. As long as we try to please a sense of self, that feeling will never truly go away.

Henri-Louis Bergson takes this a step further, he claims that each person has the capacity to remember everything that has ever happened to them and to humanity at any time. But our psyche guards us from that overload of information because we do not need it to survive. This is related to the Jungian concept of the Collective Unconscious. It stands to reason then, that we know how to do one thing very well – survive.  Yet our capacity for reason and thought pushes us beyond that at every turn, especially in a world where surviving has long been automated. 

This is a source of conflict only if we give the ego too much importance. It is a process for survival, a necessity to function in the west. But it is not what we are.

**Sources**

Watts, A. (2013). _The joyous cosmology: Adventures in the chemistry of consciousness_. New World Library.

Hofmann, A. (2021). _Lsd - Mein Sorgenkind die entdeckung einer "Wunderdroge"_. Klett-Cotta.